README.md, before:

# Multnomah County Jail Crawler

[![scraper-pdx-jail](https://github.com/NguyenDa18/PDX-Jail-Data-Crawler/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NguyenDa18/PDX-Jail-Data-Crawler/actions/workflows/main.yml)

![Portland Justice](https://media.giphy.com/media/SJXKIfZVq5EWieBZbX/giphy.gif)

## Purpose

Crawl through bookings of PDX Jail Database for data analysis and data transparency purposes. Update data files with scheduled jobs courtesy of GitHub actions.

- Visit Multnomah County Online Inmate Data website: use URL for all inmates in custody: [Link](http://www.mcso.us/PAID/Home/SearchResults)
- Scrape inmate names and booking dates and update `csvs/inmate_bookings.csv` file
- Visit each inmate link and update `csvs/inmate_details.csv` with inmate details and charges against them

### Scraper Details
- Located at `inmates_spider/inmates_spider/spiders/inmates.py`
- Generate Dataframe of inmates and booking dates and update `csvs/inmate_bookings.csv`, sort by descending order of booking dates
- Follow each inmate's URL and generate metadata for each inmate, update `inmates_charges` MongoDB database with charge totals data

## Using
- BeautifulSoup
- Pandas
- GitHub Actions (for cron job running scraper)
- MongoDB (using pymongo Python package)

## Enhancements
- [X] Storing data to a Database
- [X] Optimizing crawling
- [X] Using Scrapy Spider instead of BeautifulSoup
- [ ] Creating UI for viewing data
- [ ] Send notification when a "red flag" is released

## Running It Yourself 

**Prerequisite**: Python 3 needs to be installed

1. Clone repo
2. Activate Virtual Environment

```
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies in Virtual Environment

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Best way to experiment is using Jupyter Notebook:

```
jupyter notebook
```

Then run experimental code in `Sandbox Notebook.ipynb`

Commit message:

Update database collections for inmate details and list of charges

README.md, after:

# Multnomah County Jail Crawler

[![scraper-pdx-jail](https://github.com/NguyenDa18/PDX-Jail-Data-Crawler/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/NguyenDa18/PDX-Jail-Data-Crawler/actions/workflows/main.yml)

![Portland Justice](https://media.giphy.com/media/SJXKIfZVq5EWieBZbX/giphy.gif)

## Purpose

Crawl through bookings of PDX Jail Database for data analysis and data transparency purposes. Update data files with scheduled jobs courtesy of GitHub actions.

- Visit Multnomah County Online Inmate Data website: use URL for all inmates in custody: [Link](http://www.mcso.us/PAID/Home/SearchResults)
- Scrape inmate names and booking dates and update `csvs/inmate_bookings.csv` file
- Visit each inmate link and update `csvs/inmate_details.csv` with inmate details and total amounts for each type of charge against them
- Update `csvs/inmate_charges.csv` with list of charges for all inmates

### Scraper Details
- Located at `inmates_spider/inmates_spider/spiders/inmates.py`
- Generate Dataframe of inmates and booking dates and update `csvs/inmate_bookings.csv`, sort by descending order of booking dates
- Follow each inmate's URL and generate metadata for each inmate, update `inmates_charges` MongoDB database with charge totals data

## Using
- BeautifulSoup
- Pandas
- GitHub Actions (for cron job running scraper)
- MongoDB (using pymongo Python package)

## Enhancements
- [X] Storing data to a Database
- [X] Optimizing crawling
- [X] Using Scrapy Spider instead of BeautifulSoup
- [ ] Creating UI for viewing data
- [ ] Send notification when a "red flag" is released

## Running It Yourself 

**Prerequisite**: Python 3 needs to be installed

1. Clone repo
2. Activate Virtual Environment

```
source venv/bin/activate
```

3. Install dependencies in Virtual Environment

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Best way to experiment is using Jupyter Notebook:

```
jupyter notebook
```

Then run experimental code in `Sandbox Notebook.ipynb`
